did you know you can shove potions to your
allies to heal them or that you can use boxes
to increase your damage if not then you're in
the right place Baldur's Gate 3 has set a new
standard for the RPG genre and with the level
of complexity it's bringing to the gaming world
it's important to understand the tools the game
has provided you with today I wanted to explain
how the nine common skills that every class in
the game has work and share with you my tips
and tricks so that you can impress your friends
and slay your foes let's first take a look at
the ability throw. throw has a cost of one action
point and it requires you to be in melee range of
the thing you wish to throw. Throw can be used
on nearly anything provided your character has
the strength required to throw the target. You can
throw boots, potions, explosives, weapons or
even a living target and these are just some of
the possibilities. When you're looking to throw a
weapon at a target it's important to check what
type of weapon you're throwing. Make sure that
when you throw a weapon it has this "thrown" tag
that I'm showing here. Because that means that
it will do the weapon's actual damage when you
throw it. For example if you throw a sword it'll
only deal one damage when it's thrown but
if you throw something like a trident for
example that has a throw tag it will deal the
weapons actual damage roll. Most thrown items
will also do higher damage if you're at a higher
elevation than the enemy you are targeting, Being
at a height of Just 4 meters above the target
will add three crushing damage to your throws
and that damage can grow further the more height
you have over your enemies so earlier I mentioned
how you can use boxes or crates to increase your
damage and this is how if you just stack three
crates on the ground you can jump to the top
and throwing weapons will do increased damage
if you really wanted to you could take this to
extreme levels for science purposes I decided
to stack about 100 boxes to see the damage from
that height throwing even shoes from this height
it basically turned them into a nuclear weapon
dealing over 80 damage now I don't recommend
building these ladders to heaven but for testing
purposes it does show just how much extra damage
is provided by being above your enemies just be
careful where you aim your throws if you do this
you can also throw a living being at a Target but
it is possible that that would deal no damage if
the enemy ruled a saving throw if you're downed
in combat and need a hand you can use it to throw
healing potions at an injured Ally or if you're
really crafty you can use a summoned creature to
do it for you even setting up a mix of damage
healing or utility potions to decide what you
need to throw in the heat of the battle now the
range of your throw is affected by the weight of
the object the difference in height between
you and the Target and also your character's
strength playing a class that doesn't focus
on ranged weapons oftentimes throwing items
is going to be your best choice next we'll have
a look at the skill I believe players will use
the most frequently in this game and that is the
jump ability jump has a cost of one bonus action
and three meters of your turn's total movement and
the distance you go is scaled off of your strength
attribute and the initial height of the jump
higher strength or higher height means you can
travel further distance but do be careful because
if you jump from too high you could take damage
fall down and lose your turn or possibly even die
from it because it costs three of your maximum
movement per turn you can usually use it to go
further than the initial three distance that it
costs you it's often better to jump where you want
to go rather than actually click and move to where
you want to go in this game jumping can even allow
you to escape from ground surface effects without
risk look at this example here my character is
standing on an ice surface and Ice has a chance
when you walk on it to make your character fall
down and go prone which immediately ends return
but by jumping directly out of the surface you
do not risk falling down at all allowing you to
escape the surface and complete your turn other
surfaces like grease fire webs and poisons are
just some of the examples where a jump is a
powerful tool to escape and minimize the risk
jumping to higher elevations can also increase
your range character's hit chance and give them
The High Ground advantage on abilities before
you use them if you look at this example here
my hit chance goes from 60 up to 70 percent just
by jumping to a higher elevation you can stack
crates anywhere in the world and create your own
High Ground whenever you need it you'll be able to
tell if you have The High Ground because this icon
appears here outside of combat this ability is
still very useful you can use it to find alternate
paths hidden secrets or steadily jump past an
enemy's sight you can even combine jumping with
spells like featherfall or even class passives to
reduce the damage that you would take from Landing
or increase the distance of the jump remember in a
game like Baldur's Gate your utility with these
abilities is basically endless be creative and
jump carefully so now since I just mentioned that
you can stealthily jump past enemies let's talk
about the hide ability the hide ability in this
game is one of the greatest advantages and in its
current state is literally broken if you played
Early Access before you might remember that Hyde
was a bonus action but in the most recent panel
from Hell video the character did use hide and
they've changed it to an action which is probably
a good change for the balance of the game anyways
when you're not hidden you can use the left
shift key on your keyboard to see the enemy's
site cones as long as you activate hide outside
of these cones you will be hidden and basically
invisible until an enemy's sitecone crosses
your path if you activate hide in a cyclone
or the enemy moves their Cyclone into your area
the game will roll a dice over their head and it
will either succeed and keep being hidden or it
fails and you're revealed while hidden you also
gain the ability to pickpocket from targets or you
can steal which can be useful in many ways such
as stealing keys to get your friend out of jail or
stealing possibly explosive weapons the target may
have had in their inventory the hide action has a
high chance to fail if you're in the bright area
when you enter an enemy site cone the way you can
tell if an area is considered to be dark or light
or whatever is that you hold the left shift key on
your keyboard and the mouse will display an icon
here it can be a sun meaning bright a half Sun
or a dark Sun you can affect the state of this
by changing the level of the lighting in the area
such as extinguishing a torch or casting a light
spell so that's the basics of the ability but
where it gets really juicy is that being hidden
gives you an advantage on all of your attacks
and spells on enemies in combat situations and
if you want to start the encounter the enemy will
often be surprised surprise [__] when a Target
is surprised it skips their first turn of combat
entirely you can do some crazy things with stuff
such as before the encounter Place explosives into
key areas or get into a position which grants you
an edge in combat a great way to make it easier
to use use and avoid an enemy who is constantly
moving is to activate the turn based mode so what
this does is it basically pauses time in the game
world so that you can move into a position without
the enemy moving around it will remain this way
until you hit the end turn button and then it
will skip the time forward 6 seconds now one of
the best tips I can give you for the hide ability
is that if you're in a situation like this where
your health is low and you're stuck in melee
range and you don't think you have any other
way to escape this you can actually attempt to
hide while in combat and if you're lucky you
can survive that encounter you can take this one
step further and actually break combat entirely
and now this is basically a cheese Strat and it
kind of makes the game less fun if you abuse it
but if all of your characters are hidden during
combat the enemy AI will break and do nothing
this was actually a bug that was in Divinity 2 and
never got fixed now I'd recommend you don't use
it unless maybe you're in a situation where you're
about to lose two hours of progress because you're
getting auto save but hiding in combat does kind
of break combat and now we'll take a look at shove
the obvious use of shove is to use it to push an
enemy from a high position to a low position it's
incredibly useful because it just costs one
bonus action meaning it's almost always worth
using it if you can especially in the early
game where it's sometimes hard to spend those
bonus actions effectively it's one of the few
bonus actions which allows you to deal damage
or possibly even One-Shot your enemies from Level
1. shove can even be used to wake a sleeping Ally
without damaging them or you can shove them out
of a start of turn damage effect like a Moonbeam
or cloud of daggers if you're a ranged character
stuck in melee range you'll be suffering from the
threatened buff which means that your hit chance
is reduced because there's an enemy in melee range
you can actually attempt to shove the enemy away
to increase your hit chance or use it to avoid
an attack of opportunity shove is based on your
character's strength and the enemy's acrobatics
and athletic skills the target is too heavy or
there's terrain blocking them it will often fail
you can also use shove on objects so if you
wanted to you could use shove on an explosive
Barrel from a high ground location to the low
ground it's a little bit difficult to aim so
it's not really that recommended one really neat
to pull-off trick is that you can use shove from
a high ground and then push a potion onto the low
ground it'll break the potion onto the ground and
that allows a nearby character to walk into that
potion and get that buff next we'll take a look at
improvised weapon improvised weapon is one of the
coolest things in the game it allows you to grab
whatever you want and use that as a weapon as long
as there's an item nearby or in your inventory you
can just take it and smack someone hard with
it another really nice use is it allows you
to relocate heavy objects with ease you can use
improved melee weapon on a corpse and reposition
it very far compared to if you're going to throw
that same corpse especially for a low strength
character it's also really nice because it allows
you to get the bludgeoning damage type really
easily some enemies such as skeletons are actually
vulnerable to bludgeoning damage meaning they
take double damage so let's say your fighter only
has a sword and tries to hit a skeleton it's not
going to do that much damage but if they have the
option to pull improvised weapon and smack them
with something it's gonna double any damage that
dealt you can even pick up small living enemies
and attempt to use them as a weapon next we're
going to look at the dip action as far as the
abilities on this list go dip is one of the more
Niche abilities you won't be able to get a strong
use case on every class with dip but on a class
which is swinging its weapons or shooting bows
from a distance it's basically free damage dip
allows you to dip your weapons into poison fire
or possibly other surfaces later on in the game
that's the only ones I've found so far and after
you've dipped the weapon it'll add one D4 damage
to your weapon attacks for three turns the type
of the damage depends on the surface you dipped
your weapon into you can actually cast dip on a
lot of things you can dip onto a surface a brazer
a torch or even candles and there's probably more
options than that a candle is probably the easiest
method to get dip because as long as you carry it
in your inventory and drop it on the ground you
can then light the candle by clicking it and then
use the dip action on it if you're wondering you
can't pick up most candles in the game only some
of them so you just have to right click and see
which ones you can pick up they kind of look like
this one here and if you go into your inventory
and right click a poison you can actually apply
that poison to your weapon in or you can smash the
poison bottle on the ground and then keep reusing
it on that pile of poison that you made on the
ground now we're going to take a look at disengage
disengage allows you to avoid attacks of
opportunity an attack of opportunity is shown
by this little red arrow here when you're standing
nearby an enemy in melee range and what that means
is if you move away from that enemy they will get
a free hit on you disengage allows you to avoid
that hit it's sometimes good to use on a character
when you have maybe like one Health Point and you
need to escape or if you're surrounded by multiple
enemies you can disengage and avoid all of those
hits this is a good ability that can potentially
save you losing progress say if you're stuck in
combat and you're on your last character you have
one Health Point and you can possibly disengage
to run away next we have Dash so Dash uses just
one action point and allows you to double your
movement Dash is really powerful for escaping
fights or kiting your opponents it can be useful
to use Dash to run up to an enemy and then get in
reins to use shove or something on them or if it
really was important for you to use jump on that
turn and you already moved and didn't save enough
of your movement speed to spend it on jump you can
cast Dash and it'll give you enough movement speed
so that you can jump Dash is probably your best
way to escape a fight that you think you can't
win because if you use Dash you can often get
far enough away to use the flea combat button
and prevent a party wipe you can even combine Dash
with something like a potion of speed to give your
character some insane movement speed for a single
turn and Escape basically any situation this combo
here I was able to increase my movement speed for
one turn from 9 meters to 54 meters Dash is one of
the only abilities I've seen in the game that you
can cast while using hide and it does not break
you from being hidden meaning you can Dash around
to increase your movement speed while you're
hidden and lastly we're going to look at the help
ability the main purpose of help is that it allows
you to pick up a downed Ally for the cost of one
action point you can use it both in combat and
out of combat while one of your characters is on
the ground about to die if you're able to get in
range to use help on them then you don't have
to spend gold on those expensive Resurrection
Scrolls however if you're not quick enough they
will die and you will need to revive them the
secondary usage of help is that you can use it to
remove some status effects on Allied targets when
you're melee ranked with them these status effects
include things like burning downed and snared and
Tangled and webbed prone and sleeping most of the
time it's not worth it to use help to remove these
but sometimes it can be probably the best time is
you can use help on a sleeping Ally to wake them
up without damaging them or you could even pick
up a character who fell prone and slipped on the
ice during their turn and give them a chance to
actually do their turn still and with that I've
reached the end of this video do you have any tips
that you think I've missed please let me know or
if you've learned anything new give the video a
like this is actually the first video I've made on
this channel so any feedback is welcome if you're
interested in more Baldur's Gate 3 tips Please
Subscribe because I plan to do a lot more content
in the future but anyways thank you for watching